packages/entity-renderer/README.md, before:

# Trifid plugin to render entities

## Quick start

Install this Trifid plugin using:

```sh
npm install @zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer
```

And then add in the `config.yaml` file the following part:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      # ignore some specific paths
      ignorePaths:
        - /query
```

## Define your own css/template

Specify the path where the handlebars template is located:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      path: file:./some-path/your-template.hbs
```

## Rendering options

Under the hood, this plugin uses [rdf-entity-webcomponent](https://github.com/zazuko/rdf-entity-webcomponent), that accepts the same configuration options.

Add any of these options under the config section:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      compactMode: false
      technicalCues: true
      embedNamedNodes: false
```

## Rewriting

You can configure if the plugin needs to perform any rewriting on the result to the SPARQL queries.

You can use the following configuration option `rewrite` and set it to one of those value:

- `auto` (default value): if the `datasetBaseUrl` configuration value is defined (globally or at the scope of this plugin), then it will behaves as if the value was set to `true`, else like `false`
- `true`: rewrite the result of the SPARQL queries by replacing the `datasetBaseUrl` value with the current domain.
- `false`: this will disable the rewriting mechanism. This is useful if your triples are already matching the domain name where your Trifid instance is deployed.

## Follow redirects

Using SPARQL it is possible to define some redirects.
This plugin can follow those redirects and render the final resource, if the `followRedirects` configuration option is set to `true`.

The default value is `false`.

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      followRedirects: true
      redirectQuery: "…" # Select query used to get the redirect target ; needs to return a row with `?responseCode` and `?location` bindings.
```

The default redirect query supports `http://www.w3.org/2011/http#` and `http://www.w3.org/2006/http#` prefixes.

## Other configuration options

- `resourceExistsQuery`: The `ASK` query to check whether the resources exists or not
- `resourceGraphQuery`: The query to fetch the actual triples of the resource
- `containerExistsQuery`: The `ASK` query to check whether the container exists or not
- `containerGraphQuery`: The query to fetch the actual triples of the container
- `resourceNoSlash`: The handler will also check if there is a resource with a URL ending with a slash before running the container logic.
  Set this option to true to disable the resource exists query.
  Useful if you know there are no triples with container URLs.
- `additionalRewrites`: An array of additional rewrite rules, in case the default rewriting is enabled but it not enough.
  Each rule is either a string or an object with the following properties:
  - `find`: the string to find
  - `replace`: the string to replace with (optional, the default value will be the current hostname)
- `enableSchemaUrlRedirect`: If set to `true`, the plugin will perform a redirect if the URI contains a `schema:URL` predicate pointing to a resource of type `xsd:anyURI`.
  The default value is `false`.
  If enabled, the user can still disable this behavior by either:
  - setting the `disableSchemaUrlRedirect` query parameter to `true`
  - setting the `x-disable-schema-url-redirect` header to `true`
- `allowEndpointSwitch`: If set to `true`, the plugin will allow the user to switch the endpoint by setting the `endpoint` query parameter.
  This will inject a `endpointName` cookie while querying the SPARQL endpoint and is meant to be used with the `sparql-proxy` Trifid plugin.
  The default value is `false`.
  This option is experimental and might change or be removed in the future.

## Run an example instance

```sh
npm run example-instance
```

And go to http://localhost:3000/ to see the result.

Commit message:

fixes T26284   1. Fix enrichWithNamedGraph response parsing
  File: packages/entity-renderer/index.js:275-306

  Bug: graphResult.response.json is not a function

  Fix: Use select: true option to get parsed bindings directly.

  2. Use CONSTRUCT instead of DESCRIBE for GraphDB                    |
  | Named Graph            | "Default graph" | "lindas.admin.ch/meta" |

packages/entity-renderer/README.md, after:

# Trifid plugin to render entities

## Quick start

Install this Trifid plugin using:

```sh
npm install @zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer
```

And then add in the `config.yaml` file the following part:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      # ignore some specific paths
      ignorePaths:
        - /query
```

## Define your own css/template

Specify the path where the handlebars template is located:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      path: file:./some-path/your-template.hbs
```

## Rendering options

Under the hood, this plugin uses [rdf-entity-webcomponent](https://github.com/zazuko/rdf-entity-webcomponent), that accepts the same configuration options.

Add any of these options under the config section:

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      compactMode: false
      technicalCues: true
      embedNamedNodes: false
```

## Rewriting

You can configure if the plugin needs to perform any rewriting on the result to the SPARQL queries.

You can use the following configuration option `rewrite` and set it to one of those value:

- `auto` (default value): if the `datasetBaseUrl` configuration value is defined (globally or at the scope of this plugin), then it will behaves as if the value was set to `true`, else like `false`
- `true`: rewrite the result of the SPARQL queries by replacing the `datasetBaseUrl` value with the current domain.
- `false`: this will disable the rewriting mechanism. This is useful if your triples are already matching the domain name where your Trifid instance is deployed.

## Follow redirects

Using SPARQL it is possible to define some redirects.
This plugin can follow those redirects and render the final resource, if the `followRedirects` configuration option is set to `true`.

The default value is `false`.

```yaml
plugins:
  # […]
  entity-renderer:
    module: "@zazuko/trifid-entity-renderer"
    config:
      followRedirects: true
      redirectQuery: "…" # Select query used to get the redirect target ; needs to return a row with `?responseCode` and `?location` bindings.
```

The default redirect query supports `http://www.w3.org/2011/http#` and `http://www.w3.org/2006/http#` prefixes.

## Other configuration options

- `resourceExistsQuery`: The `ASK` query to check whether the resources exists or not
- `resourceGraphQuery`: The query to fetch the actual triples of the resource
- `containerExistsQuery`: The `ASK` query to check whether the container exists or not
- `containerGraphQuery`: The query to fetch the actual triples of the container
- `resourceNoSlash`: The handler will also check if there is a resource with a URL ending with a slash before running the container logic.
  Set this option to true to disable the resource exists query.
  Useful if you know there are no triples with container URLs.
- `additionalRewrites`: An array of additional rewrite rules, in case the default rewriting is enabled but it not enough.
  Each rule is either a string or an object with the following properties:
  - `find`: the string to find
  - `replace`: the string to replace with (optional, the default value will be the current hostname)
- `enableSchemaUrlRedirect`: If set to `true`, the plugin will perform a redirect if the URI contains a `schema:URL` predicate pointing to a resource of type `xsd:anyURI`.
  The default value is `false`.
  If enabled, the user can still disable this behavior by either:
  - setting the `disableSchemaUrlRedirect` query parameter to `true`
  - setting the `x-disable-schema-url-redirect` header to `true`
- `allowEndpointSwitch`: If set to `true`, the plugin will allow the user to switch the endpoint by setting the `endpoint` query parameter.
  This will inject a `endpointName` cookie while querying the SPARQL endpoint and is meant to be used with the `sparql-proxy` Trifid plugin.
  The default value is `false`.
  This option is experimental and might change or be removed in the future.
- `enrichWithNamedGraph`: If set to `true`, the plugin will perform an additional SPARQL query to fetch the named graph(s) containing the resource and enrich the dataset with this information.
  This is useful when using SPARQL endpoints (like GraphDB) that don't return graph information in DESCRIBE queries.
  The default value is `false`.
- `namedGraphQuery`: The SELECT query used to fetch the named graph(s) containing the resource.
  The default query is `SELECT DISTINCT ?g WHERE { GRAPH ?g { <{{iri}}> ?p ?o } }`.

## Run an example instance

```sh
npm run example-instance
```

And go to http://localhost:3000/ to see the result.
